I am full-blooded Cherokee.
We were Indians,
but yet we couldn’t be Indians
in the white man’s world.
And now you’re telling me
I’ve got to go fight your war.
I was drafted during the Vietnam era.
When I got out,
I was very angry at the government.
I heard about this militant group of natives
who were fighting for their rights.
Protesting was a way of letting people know
that we were not going
to stand for this any longer.
I grew up in Ireland in a family of ten.
We were Catholic and very poor.
At 16, I joined the army.
At school, we learned all about nationalism
and the 800 years of fighting
between the English and the Irish.
When the conflict
started in Northern Ireland,
that had a tremendous effect on our lives.
When I saw something happening
and I saw foreign soldiers
killing my people, fellow Catholics,
I felt I had to engage
and defend them
against the British establishment.
My wife started studying.
I said: “They are coming here and are going
to Christianize us and civilize us,”
and “Don’t bring those
Bible-toting white people around me.
I don’t want their religion.”
After Nancy started studying,
she decided to get baptized.
So the sisters said, “Are you
taking her to the assembly?”
And I told them; I said,
“Nah, I’m going to stay home.”
So the sisters, you know, said,
“Well, who is going to watch the baby
while she’s getting baptized?”
I said, “Oh, yeah, maybe I should go.”
The way they treated each other with respect
—one wasn’t on this side
and the other on this side.
They were all together.
They didn’t just walk by and ignore me.
They brought people over
and introduced them to me.
They spoke with sincerity.
I thought: ‘This is the way
the world should be.
This is the way people should live.’
I’m currently serving as an elder
in the Illinois River Cherokee Congregation
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I have the privilege of teaching
these ones who have moved here
to learn the Cherokee language
so that they can teach them the good news.
There is no other love—nowhere.
This love is genuine.
I was in a car accident and nearly died.
I started to drink
because I couldn’t cope with my situation.
I did expect that my comrades
in the Republican movement
might have come to help us,
but they didn’t come at all.
I was studying the Bible three weeks
with one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
He was very English,
and his wife, so English.
I wouldn’t have chosen them
to have come into my house,
but they did, and they were lovely.
Nobody came to see me—only the brother.
He would come regularly.
And that to me was a godsend
—that someone cared about me.
And I thought: ‘Wow!
Everyone who is fighting
for justice in the world needn’t fight.’
And that went right through my heart.
Sometimes when I meet
ex-British soldiers in the truth,
I say to them,
“We’re in the same army now, brother.”
The only place we can find
love and friendship
and companionship
is in Jehovah’s organization.